>> Lukas Ruebbelke: In this module
we are going to talk about Forms.
Now Forms is interesting
in Angular 2 because,
quite frankly,
they have changed everything.
So with that said I'll make
a bit of a confession.
Or rather being that I am a fairly lazy
individual
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I have found within
a form simply using ngModel to bind
to an object on your component
that you then modify,
make your updates, and
then when you're ready to do something,
then you bind to a click event and
you emit it.
Emit it.
It sounded like I said admit it.
Admit it, you emit it.
And so this is a minimum viable form.
And so when we get to the challenge,
if this is approximately what you had,
this would be totally fine.
Now, in Angular 1,
we have ngModel as well, and
it provides to a data binding,
pretty straight forward.
But then when we think about it, there's
are lot of other things to help us along.
So for instance, we had the form
controller in Angular 1 and
that got created behind the scenes
implicitly that every time
you created a form Angular would come,
like swoop back around, and
create this controller on your
form to keep track of that state.
And so that still exists.
You have now what it's
called a form control,
which you can manage an individual control
or an individual input, or form element.
Then you can bring those together and
group them together, and so
you can have a group control.
Let me just go down here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so you can have
a form control, a form group control.
And then, where I think it gets
interesting, is then they have bundled
that all up into a form builder,
which I think is the most interesting.
So just to reiterate real quick,
if you simply want to get the state, or
rather the value,
of a form you can use ngModel.
If you wanna get the state of it,
then you use a form control.
If you want to group those together,
then you can use a group control.
But then, if you want to have more
programmatic control, so for instance,
applying validations and different
things to this group of controls and
do more of a data model driven approach,
a form-driven or
to forms, then you use Form Builder.
So this is what we're going to
discuss here is form control,
form group control, Form Builder, and
then we'll also talk about how
to submit the form as well.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let me
just see what I got here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah,
all right, so let's just.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm gonna skip
the slides for the most part, and
we're gonna jump straight into the code.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So first and foremost,
again, I was talking about the minimum
viable effort to get the value from
an input and move it somewhere else.
This is ngModel.
And we've been kinda
playing around with this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All day long.
Let me just go into the demo here.
And so now you can see that-.
I wanna update this, actually,
let me bind something here real quick.
I'll just go with h.
Then we're just going to bind to-
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: selectedItem.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I really should
just turn this into a live template.
All right, let's refresh.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So here,
you can see now we have our object and
then as I type it things are happening.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So let's look at
the other end of the spectrum and
then we'll kinda work to the middle.
So Form Builder,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We start out
by importing form directives, and so just
like in Angular 1, when you have a form,
Angular 1 also has a form directive that
goes through and attaches things to it.
This is where form directives come in.
So when you import this,
then any time you import a directive,
and it goes into the directives array, so
any of our components that we've
developed, that in that template,
if it recognizes any of those selectors,
it's going to attach that component to it.
So in this case with form directives,
now it's looking and
it's saying here's this form, and because
we have form directives on this component,
it's going to basically extend or
augment the standard form just like in
Angular 1 and
provide additional functionality.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: From here,
we are injecting Form Builder and
all Form Builder does is it
takes a group of controls and
allows you to attach them together.
So in this case,
let's just look at the code in the IDE.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: One second here.
Let's clear the deck and we-
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So now I've created
this kind of wonky object here.
I was actually just seeing
if I could define the shape
of something on the fly, but we have
this person, my first name is Luke,
my last name is Ruebbelke, and
this is my top secret password.
And now what we're doing is,
we are generating
essentially a new instance of, or we're
calling Form Builder and we're saying
group these things together in
such a way that when it renders,
we have this object that
we can do things with.
So
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You notice here
that I have like ngControl, and ngControl,
ngControl and so
when I add ngControl to an element,
so remember Form Builder is
just a group of controls,
that when I add ngControl,
I now have access to
the state of this input
via this name here.
So
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now
when this renders we can do things like,
this is no longer valid.
And so, Form Builder is basically
programmatically generating this for
us and allowing us to add
validations to the fields.
Now it is.
And you can notice that
as well the input or
your button is disabled, because
you are no longer in a valid state.
So I'm going to put in my password again.
Now it's ten characters long, super.
So we'll go back into
how we're defining this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
we're creating a group, and
we're saying this is first name,
last name, and in here, so
we want to actually bind to this object,
and we want to set a validation to this.
So, in this case we're
saying this is required.
You can also group your validators
together using Validators.compose.
So you can see here that we're
saying not only is it required,
but we want a minimum length of ten.
Just see if I can hop into here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And then, so
individual group, ngControl, and
then we're actually grouping these
together using control group.
So this is just a way to
kind of organize those.
So, when I first saw this
I was fairly confused.
I was like well, what is going on,
like what's the point of this.
And there was kind of,
just like in Angular 1,
there's a lot of things kind
of happening under the hood.
The simplest way to think of it,
is that you just have a control for
each input, you can group those
together with a control group and
then you can get the state of that.
So for instance, if you look here,
we have our Form Builder,
the group that's been
returned by Form Builder.
And we're simply saying is this valid?
So this is very similar
to Angular 1 when we
do something like dollar valid or
pristine.
And so a lot of those
properties still come through.
And actually,
let me just see here real quick.
I think I can,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I
know we have required.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Just
curious real quick,
what is on
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
required minLength,
maxLength, pattern, null and
then compose that we saw that
allowed us to put this together.
So these are kind of the basic
ones that we had with Angular 1.
The upside is, it's a post Angular 1 where
you have to do like ng-min length, and
then set that in there on the template.
You are now actually able to
do this programmatically here.